# Heidelberg
<p>Heidelberg is a city in the region Rhein-Neckar in the state of
Baden-Württemberg in the Federal Republic of Germany. Heidelberg lies on the
River Neckar in a steep valley in the Odenwald. Over 148,000 people live in the
city.</p>

<p>It is no secret that Heidelberg is a jewel among German travel destinations.
Heidelberg is in the Neckar river valley right where the legend-rich Odenwald
(Forest of Odes or Odin) opens up towards the plains of the Rhine Valley.
Heidelberg is home to the oldest university in Germany (est. 1386). With 28,000
students, the Ruprecht-Karls-Universität (or Ruperto Carola, the Latin
equivalent of its name) is one of Germany's larger academic institutions and
boasts the full spectrum of an ancient academy, from Egyptian Studies to
Computer Linguistics. The faculties for Medicine, Law and Natural Sciences are
considered to be among the best in Germany.</p>

<p>During WWII, the city was almost completely spared allied bombings which
destroyed many of Germany's larger inner cities. As a result, Heidelberg has
retained its baroque charm of narrow streets, picturesque houses, and of course
the world-famous Schloss (castle ruins). After World War II, the US Army built
large barracks at the southern end of the city which housed up to 30,000 US
military personnel and their families for more than six decades—up until 2012.
In 2015, the US military housing was given to the German government. This
massive area of town is currently largely abandoned (as of winter 2017) and it
remains sealed off behind barbed wire fences and cameras (though the cameras
may be vestigial). Heidelberg's 150,000 inhabitants include roughly 38,000
students between the university and the other research institutes. With
hundreds of thousands of tourists flocking to the city annually, Heidelberg is
truly a culturally diverse and international destination, despite its small
size.</p>
