# Hamburg
The city of Hamburg has a well-deserved reputation as Germany's Gateway to
the World. It is the country's biggest port and the second-busiest in Europe,
despite being located astride the River Elbe, some 100 kilometres from the
North Sea. It is also Germany's second largest city with a population of over
1.8 million and the Greater Hamburg Metropolitan Region has a population of
over four million. Hamburg is proud of its status as a "Free and Hanseatic
City" and thus shares the same status as a province, making up one of Germany's
16 federal-states or Bundesländer.

It values its status as being as independent as possible of other states that
have existed or currently exist in Germany. Over the centuries, Hamburg has
always been an international city. This is not only because of its position in
international trade, but also in political dimensions.

One of the most important harbours in Europe and the world, Hamburg takes great
pride in its mercantile background, which built the city's wealth in the past
centuries. From 1241 on, it was a founding member of the Hanseatic League, a
medieval trade monopoly across Northern Europe. In the 19th and beginning of
the 20th century, millions left Europe on their way to the new world through
the Hamburg harbour. Today, the harbour ranks second in Europe and eleventh
world-wide. Consequently, one of Hamburg's tag lines is "The Gateway to the
World" (derived from the city’s coat of arms, showing a white city wall with a
gate and crowned by three towers on a red background). Hamburg is known to be
one of the richest metropolitan area in the European Union, in the company of
Brussels and London.
